This is going to be
very similar to graphs.
This is gonna be very similar
to breadth first traversal.
So keep those kinda things in your brain
while we're working on this, okay?
Imagine you have a six by six grid
looks something like this, right?
And you wanna get from point A to point B,
okay?
So that's a 11 to 26, where 00 is this
one, we'll always do 00 on the top left.
How would you do that?
Like what algorithm would you write right
now to get from point A to point B?
I imagine most you just say,
go towards it, right?
So just say like, all right, I'm too
far to the left and then too far up,
assuming you start from A so just go down
until you run out of space to go down or
you're on the correct level,
and then head right.
That would work, right?
Cuz there's no obstacles here.
They will just go here, here, here, here,
or you could do it the opposite saying,
go right until I'm on the right thing and
say go here, here, here, here and
then you'd arrive, right?
Seems like it would work, right?
Okay, yeah, exactly.
This is what we diagram out, you just
go down until go there, it's five.
That would be the shortest path
between point A and point B.
Now, what if we add a wall
in the middle there?
That gets a lot harder, right?
Cuz if you try and do this, you're gonna
go here and then you're gonna hit a wall.
Okay, well, you could try to be
exploring the wall and say, okay,
I can't go that way, this way, down
again and then right again, I'd find it.
So we could probably write some really
basic, go left and right to try and
get around the wall kinda thing.
But as you might imagine, this is gonna
spiral out of control really quickly.
What happens if there's no a wall that
you have to go all the way down and
then back up and around right, or
what happens if there's all sorts
of various different walls?
Cuz I could really easily trick your
algorithm, at which point you'd be writing
so many special cases that it would
just be an absolute mess of code.
Wouldn't it be better/easier if there was
just some algorithm that we could write
that allowed us to always
solve these problems?
So let's try something here and
it's called Dijkstra's algorithm.
And the first thing I'll say is we're
actually not gonna do precisely Dijkstra's
algorithm.
Dijkstra's algorithm actually allows
you to be even more clever, but
we're gonna be doing like the most
basic implementation of something
that could be considered compliant
with Dijkstra's algorithm.
And the idea here is that you spiral
outward from your points until you find
a place where they meet.
So what we're gonna do instead
is we're gonna go to A and
we're gonna explore one
in every direction.
Then we're gonna go to B and
we're gonna do the exact same thing.
We're gonna explore one
in every direction.
We haven't met yet.
So we're gonna go back to A and we're
going to go one more in every direction.
So this is to a way, to a way,
to a way, to a way, to a way, right?
Assuming we can't go diagonal, right?
The same thing was 0.2, 2222.
Eventually, just going kinda
that spiraling outward.
We're gonna find this point here where
this three and this three might meet.
And all of sudden now we know a path
because we've spelled out where
from both of them that if we go 1,
2, 3, 3, 2, 1,
we have found the shortest possible
path between these two points.
So this might look to you kinda
like breadth-first traversal and
that's because it's actually
precisely to what it is.
The name of this algorithm is
breadth-first pathfinding.
And Dijkstra's algorithm is really just
that doing breadth-first traversals.
Just with adding the ability to add
weights onto all those various different
points, you can say, go towards it
first and then try and go left, or
you can add some heuristics
to how it works.
And ours,
we're just doing dumb just spiral out
until you find the where it meets.
So you can think of all these points like
1, 1, it's basically a graph, right?
It's a graph of coordinates that connects
to other coordinates in the graph.
So all we're doing here is we're
just spiraling out of our graph and
we're just checking all the children in
a breadth-first traversal sorta pattern,
okay?
This is basically tree
traversal all over again.
We're just using coordinates
instead of using
connections on our network or
nodes in a tree.
There's a really cool visualizer here that
I linked too down here in the bottom that,
let's see, bidirectional.
And let's just draw a line
between the two of these.
And you can say start search and
it'll show you except that's
not what we wanted to do.
That's you want breadth-first search.
Don't allow bidirectional start search.
So this is literally what you and
I are doing together.
And then eventually when it
finds somewhere that these meet,
it'll take that path as the shortest path.
And like this can handle pretty
difficult situations that you put it in.
So now,
if we were trying to go directly to this,
we would have a hell of a time
getting out of our little box here.
But with this, it just spirals outward,
until eventually finds the space,
until it keeps spiraling, until eventually
it's gonna find some way to get there.
Now as some of you might be saying like,
that looks like it's kind of inefficient,
cuz once you start getting to these
really deep traversals, yeah,
it gets a little weird, right?
Which is where some of these other ones,
like this is Dijkstra over here.
But this just allows you to put some more
weight on going towards something instead
of going away from it.
But there you go.
Okay.
So I also linked a little Stack Overflow
here if you want somebody to decline
the difference in depth between
breadth-first search and
Dijkstra's algorithm.
So this is still gonna work the same way,
where you're just queuing like, you're
going to add something to a queue, and
then you're gonna process
all the items in the queue.
This works just like the graph, this
works just like breadth-first traversal.
You're just using coordinates instead
of using people in a social graph.
The other thing that you need to keep
track of is what has been visited by what.
So I need to keep track of that this
point has been visited by A cuz what you
need to check as soon as this
one is found you to say,
okay, I'm point A, this has been visited
by A and this one's been visited by B.
And then when you find that both
of them have been visited by
different coordinates, then you know
that you found the shortest path there.
So you're gonna have to do some strategy
of keeping track of this has been visited
by A, this has been visited by B and
this has not been visited at all.
So, again, be really inspired
by what you just did with graph,
cuz the algorithm works pretty similar.